>> Steve Kinney: So we need two things,
we need the ability to traverse the array,
or the tree, rather.
And then we'll have to implement
the ability to actually go ahead
and modify it.
So let's take care of some
of the traversal first.
There's not a lot here,
this is basically just traveling it.
And this will go ahead, and
this one does in fact traverse it as well.
I'm sorry, transform it, so
we'll get to that in a second.
But let's write the ability to
actually go through the tree.
Cuz it's hard to test something
that doesn't do anything.
We could theoretically implement a counter
or mocks and something like that.
But I think we can get to that when we
get to the point where we can actually
write it.
So we'll go into traverse
which is not giving us a lot.
And we do need to diverse in
two different ways, right?
Cuz we have effectively two
data structures in here.
We have the tree, this idea like
expressions of child nodes, right?
And we also have the set of arguments,
which is an array.
So we need to both be
able to traverse up and
down the tree as well as
across the arguments, right?
So we're gonna need to
implement both of these.
So let's try to implement this.
Let's start out with a just general
traverse method that will call and
then it will kind of figure stuff out.
And again, ours will likely need to be
expanded as your language expands, but
we still have a relatively
simple language at this point.
As we add more constructs,
we might need to do more things.
Cool, all right.
So what we'll do is we'll start
with our traverse method.
Now it's got the node and
the visitor, right?
We know in our language that
our tree has a top, right?
Our tree has a single place to start, and
this is true of most
programming languages.
Ours was purposely naive for
the point of simplicity where it
starts with a call expression.
If we go back over the AST explorer and
we look at the one from Babel,
>> Steve Kinney: Bring that over and
we scroll up, you can see they started
with a file, but a lot of us started this
program which is the exact same concept,
exact single point on the tree, right?
Cuz we can have a bunch of
things at that top level, right?
There is a program that has
a body which is an array.
So not dissimilar from ours, and
like eventually we can wrap like
we'll have a function where we can
wrap it in the same kinda construct.
But we just wanted to keep it
simple in the very beginning.
But it's the same idea that you have
basically the ability to go across
sibling nodes, or
down through child nodes.
>> Steve Kinney: But in both cases we
know that there's a parent up at the top.
So what we'll do is we'll write a,
we'll have two helper functions here.
Well, really two that it goes out to,
which is traverseNode.
>> Steve Kinney: And I'm gonna use object
destructuring cuz I don't need all
the arguments all the time when
I'm actually writing my visitors.
And I don't wanna have to
remember the order of them.
So with this, as long as I give them the
right ones it doesn't necessarily matter.
So we'll have traverseNode, and
traverseNode will take
the node we want the parent.
Why is the parent important?
The parents important cuz it allows us
to traverse back up to the tree, right?
We can effectively call node.parent,
parent, parent, parent, parent,
parent, parent, parent.
And get all the way up the tree
if we need to, like for instance,
add something all the way the top.
When would you wanna do this, right?
Well, if we were transpiring to Babel, and
we have like this large standard library.
When we're transferring right now we're
gonna make a function called add,
it'll make these functions but
they don't exist in JavaScript.
So we could do is like we came across
something in the standard library,
we can go ahead and add.
Maybe the function definitely
decoration to the like top scope or
something along those lines,
and do it programmatically.
So we're not adding
the entire standard library,
we're only adding exactly what we need.
And then we get some file size
limitations and stuff along those lines.
So we can say node, parent,
and then the visitor, right?
The visitor is what we talked about.
The separation of the ability to traverse
this tree with the thing that is doing
something, right?
And so this will be the thing
that is moving across, right?
And so we'll start with that.
And traverseNode is going to look like,
do we have anything?
That cares about this kinda
node that we're looking at.
And so I'll kinda give you some
pseudo code for the visitor so
it makes a little bit more sense.
And so our visitor,
>> Steve Kinney: Might be,
it could be a class and
it needs to hold onto a lot of state.
It all depends what you need to do.
A lot of times it will be a just
a plain of objects, right?
And let's say you had a visitor that,
changing variable decorations from, right?
You might say like a very simple,
it has a method on it called
VariableDeclaration, right?
And then it might take the actual node and
stuff like that.
>> Steve Kinney: And
so this is pseudo code,
we're gonna get rid of it in a second.
But you might do something like,
all right,
>> Steve Kinney: If visitor,
and this node's type, right?
And so if you are on a node that
was a VariableDeclaration, right?
Yeah, that's a thing, we need to do stuff.
But if you are on a, I don't know,
expression statement?
That's not a thing, and it just moves
along, and it keeps going, right?
And so the visitor can just say,
here are the things I care about,
send me through the tree, and
I'll figure it out, right?
And allows you to do lots of different
transformations with the same basic
ability, cuz the ASD of your programming
language isn't necessarily changing.
It's the things that you wanna
do depending on the test that
you're trying to run,
that is the theoretically changing, right?
So you'll see sometimes just the variable
declaration have still like
it's a pattern, right?
There's a variation on the theme, it can
still the pattern without necessarily
being one way or the other, right?
But the way that we're gonna write it
just gives us a little more flexibility
is we're gonna give it another object
that will have an enter method, and
potentially and/or an exit method, right?
Again, our traversal functions
don't know anything about this.
It's the visitor that will decide if
it needs to do anything on entrance or
on exit, right?
So we'll actually check the,
pay for this type of node.
Does this visitor have any concerns
about what it does when it enters?
And does it have any concerns about
what it does when it leaves, right?
Cools, comment that out for
a second so I don't forget about it.
So we'll say, let's just say like,
>> Steve Kinney: These are node type,
right?
So go see, are there any methods
either enter or exit on this node?
Those will decide whether or
not we do something.
Regardless of whether or
not we decide to do something.
We still need to traverse
down to the next node, right?
It's not like, if do that, right?
We're gonna like before we
do something on the end,
we will try to see if we
have an entry method.
If you have an entry method we will
do stuff, then we will traverse down,
and then on the way back up we
will call the exit method, right?
And so it's deep for search so
you go all the way down one branches tree,
all the way back up.
So we'll have an ability to kind of move,
to catch up on the way up and
catch up on the way down in
the opposite order of course, right?
And so we can say something if
there are methods at all, right?
If there were no methods
we don't wanna have a,
there is no enter on undefined,
I don't need that in my life.
If methods && methods.enter,
if you wanna add like the ability
to have like optional changing
your language that'd be great.
If there is a method object for
that, and there is a method.enter,
call it with the node and
the parent, right?
So now there's visitor, upon visiting
something that I cared about would get
access to the node and access to the
parent on every VariableDeclaration, and
that's what it cared about.
If it doesn't care about a certain
node type, it skips it, and
it moves along, right?
And if it does care about that node type,
then it's able to grab it, and
keep humming along that way.
So it's like, cool.
On the way in,
if you care about this node at all, and
you're concerned with entering, I will
hand you both the node and the parent.
Cool, and
then if there
are methods.
>> Steve Kinney: And methods of exit,
then we will go ahead and
call the methods.exit,
>> Steve Kinney: On
the node with the parent, right?
In the middle is,
depending on your data structure,
put an equal sign here before I forget,
is how you'll basically decide, all right?
Does this kind of data structure have any
way to go kind of across or down, right?
Cool, so really we have our
data structures are pretty
simple at this point which
is called expressions have
the ability to have children
which is an across, right?
And then those nodes you can go down with,
so we can kind of do, from any given
singular node that is a call
expression will go across it siblings.
And then those siblings we will be
effectively at the top of smaller trees.
So It'll be relatively simple
implementation at this point.
What we can do is just say,
there's two ways to do this,
which is if we know that consistently
stuff like our arguments and
our programs are all like.
We've named everything in our obsession
victory syntax tree consistently.
Then we're able to just like rely on hey,
I know if there's arguments,
then I know it's an array, or I know if
there's params, I know it's an array.
It seems like, hey,
does this node have arguments?
Then I need to move across them.
Params, I need to move across them.
Children or a body,
then I need to move across them.
And if you know that it's
always at the top of a tree,
then you get to design your own AST,
based on the semantics of your language.
So I'm gonna take
advantage of the fact that
I know that node.arguments
is gonna be an array.
So that's where we're gonna need
the second helper, which is traverseArray.
>> Steve Kinney: Naming things is the
second hardest thing in computer science.
We can give it an array which is
maybe the node.arguments, right?
Cuz I don't want to reverse array to
like care what the array is called.
So we're going to call an array
inside of traverse array, but
like outside of that I don't
want to have to know anything.
And the parent will be set
to be the current node, and
then it will get a copy of the visitor,
right?
So let's think about this again.
Start at the top of the tree,
check to see it says to know that
my visitor cares about I entering?
No?
Hey, do you have children
who are siblings?
I wanna move across them, right?
I'm going to effectively,
eventually iterate over them.
I will say that the current
node is the parent, and
I'll hand you the visitor
to see if it'll check you.
And it'll keep going until it
gets to the very bottom, and
then it'll begin to work its way up.
>> Steve Kinney: All right, so cool.
We're actually only really gonna really
worry about entering at this point.
But we'll go through,
am I do an exit will say,
let's add this traverse array function.
>> Steve Kinney: This should not be
very surprising and how it works.
Traverse array is gonna take, we already
know the arguments whose we saw him above.
We implemented it before we had it,
which is gonna take some array,
a parent node and the visitor, okay?
And then it's going to do is iterate
over the array, you use either for
loop or for each,
whichever one makes you happier.
This one makes me happier.
>> Steve Kinney: So
you move over that, right?
And so move across the siblings and
start descending down on each one of them.
So move them and go.
>> Steve Kinney: And that's, we didn't
need to call this traverseNode here.
But the ability to just send down a node
and across set of siblings, right?
And we'll enter and
we'll exit is effectively our entire
traversal functionality, right?
Now obviously, this is assuming that
arguments is the only kind of siblings
that we're gonna have to deal with,
so on and so forth, right?
You will need more stuff as time goes on.
And there's a lot of ways helpers and
stuff along those lines to figure
out the common things that you do.
But this will effectively work.
So when we get a new node, new visitor.
We'll say,
>> Steve Kinney: Start
at the top,
>> Steve Kinney: And start going down.